What’s New in Neo4j 5
November 2022What Is Neo4j 5?
What’s New in Neo4j 5 | November 2022In a world where the amount of data created, replicated, and stored continues to grow exponentially,
Neo4j helps the world make sense of data, especially when relationships between data are paramount.
Neo4j allows you to ask complex questions from multiple layers of data from different data sources,
unearthing hidden insights that allow you to support new use cases and business models.
Neo4j 5 is the next-generation graph data platform from Neo4j Inc. that makes it effortless to take your
superior graph performance and scale it out in the infrastructure of your choice to meet the growing
demands of your intelligent applications.
1Performance and scalability. As a pioneer and leader in the graph database space, Neo4j has a 1000x
query performance advantage over relational databases, especially when relationships are first-class
citizens.
Developer and data scientist experience. Neo4j makes it easy for developers and data scientists to
build intelligent applications on our graph data platform using their preferred languages and tools. We
also make it easy to interoperate the database with their existing data platforms and ecosystem.
Operational trust.  Neo4j meets the security standards and reliability expectations of the world’s top
companies. Neo4j removes the friction of running our database by bringing the capabilities of the
world’s number 1 graph data platform to the cloud, and by infusing the discipline of cloud operations
into the self-managed product.We continue to build on making Neo4j meet the scale expectations of a world powered by the insights
found in connected data, with particular emphasis on these three areas:Areas of InvestmentThis document summarizes the new capabilities included in the Neo4j 5 release.What’s New?
Easy Scale-Out
2 What’s New in Neo4j 5 | November 2022Autonomous Clustering. Neo4j 5 provides automated scale-out for your data without scaling up your
cluster. It automatically handles the replication of primary and secondary copies and their placement
on the most optimal servers in the cluster, reducing manual effort and optimizing your infrastructure
capacity utilization.. 
Multi-cluster Fabric. An enhanced Fabric in Neo4j 5 allows you to more easily deal with very large
graphs. Use Cypher to instantaneously enable Fabric and create a composite graph database of other
graph databases or sharded databases. Use Fabric in an Autonomous Cluster to execute queries across
databases, even those in remote clusters. 
Fast Incremental import. Neo4j 5 allows you to import bulk data incrementally into an existing
database, drastically reducing data loading time and providing flexibility for importing large datasets.Neo4j 5 makes it easy and more economical to scale out without being limited by hardware.In version 5, we focus on making it operationally easy to scale out Neo4j and achieve even faster queries in
analyzing data, even when it involves very large datasets or when it is deployed in multiple databases or
clusters in any infrastructure, including public clouds.
Easier, Powerful Queries
Graph pattern matching improvements. Neo4j 5 makes it even easier to write complex pattern-
matching queries. Cypher now has syntax for label and relationship type expressions, allowing the user
to specify Disjunction (OR), Negation (NOT), and Conjunction (AND) operators between individual labels
and relationship types.
New and enhanced indexes. Indexes are essential for quickly identifying the most efficient starting
point, node(s) or relationship(s) for a query. Neo4j 5 has extended the matching capabilities of indexes: 
FULLTEXT now indexes lists and arrays of strings to improve the quality of text search results.
The Cypher clauses CONTAINS and ENDS WITH are widely used for filtering results by text
properties. The new TEXT indexes implementation in Neo4j 5, based on trigrams, makes them up
to hundreds of times faster.
RANGE allows you to specify or compare values, e.g., find reviews rated 3-5 by users in postal
codes 94000-95000. 
POINT, often used in routing and supply chain analysis, allows you to find and compare spatial data
like longitude and latitude.Neo4j 5 includes improvements and optimizations that make writing queries in Cypher easier and query
execution more powerful.
 Cloud-like Agility
What’s New in Neo4j 5 | November 2022 3Neo4j Ops Manager. Neo4j Ops Manager provides an intuitive operations console for monitoring and
administering Neo4j deployments (database, instance, or cluster).
Continuous release support model. The latest and greatest innovations are now available on a
frequent release schedule to self-managed users, just as they have been for Aura users.
Any-to-any rolling upgrade. Upgrade single servers or perform upgrades without downtime on
Neo4j 5 clusters from any Neo4j 5 version to any later minor version without going through
intermediary versions.
Point-in-time backup and restore. A more efficient backup engine provides more control and a
simpler and faster backup experience:
Differential backup and a single compressed file archive
Point-in-time restore
APIs for inspecting and managing backup files
Option to turn on consistency checkingNeo4j 5 brings the continuous improvement discipline and expectations of cloud operations to self-
managed Neo4j and enables seamlessness between self-managed Neo4j and Aura.Up to 1000 faster K-Hop query. K-Hop is a variable length type of deep query that involves a large and
variable number of hops – where K is the variable number of hops – in order to find all unique nodes,
typically in combination with aggregation functions to count properties. In Neo4j 5, this type of query
has been optimized to go breadth first, resulting in blazingly fast response times; for example, the
response time for 8-hop queries has been improved by 1000x.
Faster runtime for Community Edition. The runtime component has been upgraded from Interpreted
to Slotted, which allows Community Edition to provide ~30% faster reads.
Combined with other internal improvements and more optimized query planning, these new features make
Neo4j 5 our fastest implementation ever.